
EXERCISE-1

CED17I034

Q)List at least 10 Daemons running in your machine and explain each in one or two lines (soft copy only, just text file).


1)udevd - event managing daemon
	udevd listens to kernel uevents and passes the incoming events to udev. It ensures the correct event 
	order and takes care, that events for child devices are delayed until the parent event has finished 
	the device handling.

2)LVMETAD - THE METADATA DAEMON  
	The metadata daemon has two main purposes: It improves performance of LVM commands and it allows udev
	to automatically activate logical volumes or entire volume groups as they become available to the
	system.

3)acpid - Advanced Configuration and Power Interface event daemon
	acpid is designed to notify user-space programs of ACPI events. acpid should be started during the
	system boot, and will run as a background process, by default. It will open an events file (/proc/acpi
	event by default) and attempt to read whole lines. When a line is received (an event), acpid will
	examine a list of rules, and execute the rules that match the event.

4)udisksd - The udisks system daemon
	The udisksd program provides the org.freedesktop.UDisks2 name on the system message bus. Users or
	administrators should never need to start this daemon as it will be automatically started by
	dbus-daemon(1) or systemd(1) whenever an application tries to access its D-Bus interfaces.

5)systemd 
	systemd is a suite of basic building blocks for a Linux system. It provides a system and service
	manager that runs as PID 1 and starts the rest of the system. systemd provides aggressive
	parallelization capabilities, uses socket and D-Bus activation for starting services, offers on-demand
	starting of daemons, keeps track of processes using Linux control groups, maintains mount and
	automount points, and implements an elaborate transactional dependency-based service control logic

6)colord
	system service to manage device colour profiles 

7)systemd-logind
	systemd-logind is a system service that manages user logins.
	Keeping track of users and sessions, their processes and their idle state. This is implemented by 
	allocating a systemd slice unit for each user below user.slice, and a scope unit below it for each 
	concurrent session of a user. Also, a per-user service manager is started as system service instance 
	of user@.service for each logged in user.

8)bluetoothd
	daemon  which manages all the Bluetooth devices. bluetoothd itself does not accept many command-line 
	options, as most of its configuration is done in the /etc/bluetooth/main.conf file, which has its own 
	man page. bluetoothd can also provide a number of services via the D-Bus message bus system.

9)systemd-resolved
	is a system service that provides network name resolution to local applications. It implements a 
	caching and validating DNS/DNSSEC stub resolver, as well as an LLMNR and MulticastDNS resolver and 
	responder. 

10)systemd-journald
	systemd-journald is a system service that collects and stores logging data. It creates and maintains 
	structured, indexed journals based on logging information that is received from the kernel, from user 
	processes via the libc syslog call, from standard input and standard error of system services or via 
	its native API.

